---
layout: page
title: About Ching-Ting Tsai
subtitle: Nanofabrication, Electrophysiology, Bioelectronics
---

My name is Ching-Ting Tsai I have the following qualities:

- A Ph.D. Candidate at Stanford University
- Ambidextrous, Christian, and a Vegetarian
 

### My story

Entering first grade at an age younger than most people, I found myself being the youngest kid in the majority of my student career. In the beginning, I struggled to keep up, not so much academically, but more so emotionally and socially. However, in every difficult circumstance, there is always a valuable lesson to be learned. Placing myself in a more challenging environment helped me become grittier, giving me the perseverance required to deal with and overcome setbacks in life. 

At age 10, I received a book titled “The Elements”, which introduced me to the wondrous world of chemistry for the first time. I was instantly intrigued by the various existing forms of elements and their close relations with the world. Since then, I have taken a keen interest in science and started conducting home experiments. Realizing that science holds the key to addressing many world mysteries, I attempted at uncovering those mysteries through self-studies and explained the concepts behind in a simpler way to those who would listen. In middle school, I started assisting science teachers in teaching students with learning disabilities. When I saw the impact my academic support and encouragement had on those students, I realized that by being a giver, everyone can make a difference in others’ lives.

With the thought of helping more people in need, I joined the social service club in my high school. As the saying goes, with great privilege comes great responsibility. As a blessed individual, I believe that besides knowledge, what we need to develop in school is integrity. The true reward for a blessed life is having the ability to perform altruistic acts. During my three years in the club, we participated in various activities and visited many places. In a rescue operation, we went to a village that was severely damaged by typhoon Morakot to help with reconstruction. I was shocked by the magnitude of the damage and saddened by the vicissitudes of life many of the victims endured. During those few days, I spent time with the local kids, seeing the world through their eyes. The juxtaposition between the innocence and terror in their eyes presented a stark and ironic contrast. The devastating scene reminded me how fortunate I was and how there were still many others in the world in desperate need of help. 

I believe there are many ways to give back, and studying science is one. Since high school, I have been involved in many scientific activities, from being a participant in an international Science Youth Forum, to competing in the Taiwan International Science Fair, to winning the International Chemistry Olympiad. During my journey as a chemist, I had plentiful opportunities to learn valuable lessons from Nobel laureates and to share ideas with many great minds. I was particularly in awe by the lecture given by Prof. Aaron Ceichanover, in which he talked about the concept of personalized medicine, which refers to a tailored treatment each patient receives based on particular nuances and variation of his or her disease. Even though many diseases appear to be more complicated than just target identification and verification, we are now capable of probing deeply into the mechanisms of chronic diseases, and the prospects of curing them seem promising. 

With a passion for combating chronic diseases, I declared a college major in chemistry. My strong interest in chemistry helped me excel in many courses, such as advanced organic chemistry, biochemistry, and medicinal chemistry. My persistent hard work earned me the Presidential Award in every semester as the top 5% of the students in academics. In my spare time, I committed myself to becoming a better communicator. Through participating in Toastmasters, I aimed to build motivational and persuasion skills. By learning how to deliver an impactful speech and play a supportive role in any setting, I have endeavored to hone my communication and leadership skills and prepared myself for a more effective exchange of ideas and teamwork. In addition, to gain a better understanding of the biotechnology industry, I was involved in the process of organizing the TRANS Healthcare Conference, where I learned from many outstanding entrepreneurs, startups, and venture capitalists. I was also partaking in a research project in Academia Sinica, Taiwan’s premier research institution and the stronghold for basic research, to study sugar chemistry. With an aim to tackle osteoarthritis disease, the institution set up a multidisciplinary research group. By communicating with professors and students from different fields of study, I learned how to integrate resources to devise a better approach to address problems. 

As a student, I have devoted myself to attaining academic success. However, academic knowledge, though necessary, is only part of what makes a great researcher. Pursuing a Ph.D. degree is necessary for me to challenge my intellectual growth and to conduct advanced research. I see the need for me to receive more problem-solving training and to be surrounded by scholars who I can learn from and have stimulating conversations with before I can become a well-rounded researcher. Like my volunteer work to teach students with learning disabilities and my social service efforts to provide those suffering devastating loss, I want to use science to make a positive imprint, so people can benefit from my research. With the determination to excel in an environment that encourages differences in opinions and fosters innovative learning, I genuinely look forward to becoming one of the pioneers in science advances.
